lesson on [[Programming Fundamentals]]
**Exercise 1**

A gym stores data about their members.

a) Complete the table by writing the most appropriate data type for each variable.

|                |                                                                          |               |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------- |
| **Variable**   | **Use of variable**                                                      | **Data type** |
| UserEmail      | Stores the user’s email address                                          | String        |
| Cost           | Stores the cost of an item                                               | Float         |
| YearsActive    | Stores the number of years the user has been a member                    | Int           |
| PremiumMember? | Stores whether the user is a premium member                              | Boolean       |
| Status         | Stores the status type as ‘G’ for Gold, ‘S’ for Silver or ‘B’ for Bronze | Char          |

**Exercise 2**

An algorithm takes the employee’s first name and last name and stores into variables. The first letter of both the first and last name are used to create the start of the employee’s ID code followed by a ‘_’ and their department code which will be selected by the employee from the following options: ENG, MAT, SCI, COM or MUS

Example:

First name – “Becky”

Last name – “Wright”

Department – “ENG”

ID code will be “BW_ENG”

a) Write the program code for this algorithm.
```python
fname = input("First Name: ")
lname = input("Last Name: ")
dep = input("Department: ")
deps = ["ENG", "MAT", "SCI", "COM", "MUS"]
while dep not in deps:
	print ("Department doesn't exist")
	dep = input("Department: ")
print(fname[0]+lname[0]+"_"+dep)
```

b) Draw a flowchart to represent the algorithm.
[[flowchart.canvas|flowchart1]]
**B2.3**

**Exercise 3**

A vending machine dispenses four different types of snack: ‘A’, ‘B’, ‘C’ or ‘D’.

The vending machine accepts the following coins: 100 cents, 50 cents, 20 cents, 10 cents.

If the user inserts coins to a greater value than the price of the chosen snack, the machine will give change.

The program controlling the machine is to take as input:

•        the type of snack chosen (‘A’, ‘B’, ‘C’ or ‘D’)

•        the value of each coin inserted

The program output is:

•        the message “No change”, if the money inserted was exactly the price of the snack

or

•        a message summarising the number of each coin value needed to give the correct change

a) Write the program code for this algorithm.
```

```

b) Draw a flowchart to represent the algorithm.

**Exercise 4**

Alice is developing an algorithm for a game. The game will count the number of attempts by a player to guess the secret number generated by the built-in random number function.

Write the program code for an algorithm which will:

1.        generate a secret number that is a random integer in the range 1 to 20 inclusive

2.        prompt and input the player’s guess

3.        output a message if the guess is not the same as the secret number and repeat from step 2

4.        count the number of attempts it takes to guess the secret number

5.        output a message when the secret number has been guessed correctly, giving the number of attempts